You have learned all the basics
of attention by now.
In fact, you could already
build a transformer from it.
But if you want it to work really well,
run fast and get very good results,
you'll need one more thing.
The multi-head attention.
Let me show you what it is.
First, I'll share with you some
intuition on multi-head attention.
Afterwards, I'll show
you the math behind it.
Recall that you need word embeddings for
the query key and
value matrices in scaled
dot-product attention.
In multi-head attention,
you apply in parallel the attention
mechanism to multiple sets of these
matrices that you can get by
transforming the original embeddings.
In multi-head attention, the number
of times that you apply the attention
mechanism is the number
of heads in the model.
For instance, you will need
two sets of queries, keys and
values in a model with two heads.
The first head would use
a set of representations and
the second head would use a different set.
In the transformer model,
you'd get different representations
by linearly transforming the original
embeddings by using a set
of matrices W superscripts QKV for
each head in the model.
Using different sets of representations,
allow your model to learn
multiple relationships between the words
from the query and key matrices.
With that in mind, let me show you
how multi-head attention works.
The inputs to multi-head detention
is the value key and query matrices.
First, you transform each of these
matrices into multiple vector spaces.
As you saw previously,
the number of transformations for
each matrix is equal to
the number of heads in the model.
Then you will apply the scaled
dot-product attention mechanism
to every set of value, key and
query transformations,
where again the number of sets is equal
to the number of heads in the model.
After that, you concatenate
the results from each head in
the model into a single matrix.
Finally, you transform the resulting
matrix to get the output context vectors.
Note that every linear transformation
in multi-head attention contains a set
of learnable parameters, so let's go
through every step in more detail.
Say that you have two heads in your model.
The inputs to the multi-head attention
layer are the queries, keys, and
values matrices.
The number of columns in those
matrices is equal to d sub model,
which is the embedding size, and
the number of rows is given by the number
of words the sequences used
to construct each matrix.
The first step is to transform the
queries, keys and values using a set of
matrices W superscripts, QK and
V per head of the model.
This step will give you the different
sets of representations that you use for
the parallel attention mechanisms.
The number of rows and the transformation
matrices is equal to d sub model.
The number of columns d sub K for
the queries and
keys transformation matrices, and
the number of columns d sub V for
W superscript V are hyperparameters
that you can choose.
|n the original transformer model,
the author advises setting d sub K and
d sub V equals to
the dimension of the embeddings divided
by the number of heads in the model.
This choice of sizes would ensure that
the computational cost of multi head
attention doesn't exceed by much
the one for a single head attention.
After getting the transformed values for
the query key and value matrices per head,
you can apply in parallel
the attention mechanism.
As a result, you get a matrix per head
with the column dimensions equal to d sub
V, and the number of rows in those
matrices is the same as the number of rows
in the query matrix.
Then you concatenate horizontally
the matrices outputted by each
attention head in the model.
So you will get a matrix that has d sub
V times the number of heads columns.
Then you apply a linear transformation W
superscript O to the concatenated matrix.
This linear transformation has
columns equal to d sub model, and
if you choose d sub V to be equal to
the embedding size divided by the number
of heads, the number of rows in this
matrix would also be d sub model.
Just as with single head attention,
you will get a matrix with the context
vectors of size d sub model for
each of your original queries.
That's it for multi-head attention, you
just need to apply the attention mechanism
to multiple sets of representations for
the queries, keys, and values.
Then you concatenate the results from each
attention computation to get a matrix
that you linearly transform to get the
context vectors for each original query.
In this video, you learned how
multi-head attention works and you saw
some of the dimensions of the parameter
matrices involved in its calculations.
You can implement multi-head attention
to make computations in parallel.
And with a proper choice of sizes for
the transformation matrices,
the total computational time is similar
to the one of single head attention.
In the last three videos,
you learned about attention.
You know the basic dot product attention,
the causal one, and the multi-headed one.
You're now ready to build
your own transformer decoder.
That's what we'll do in the next video.